
[0:00:01] SPEAKER_01:
Kind of nervous. Oh please don't be nervous. This is just a simple conversation. So a lot of this is just process so to make sure that we have everything we need when you come in there. So like if there's an emergency we know who can call, you know, and then if there was a, if let's say you had a job and they like couldn't get in touch with you they could call us and we could say oh well here's the number we could you know send an email like it's just all so that we have stuff on file. Ain't none of these questions gonna be scary. Okay, no. So highest level of education that you've completed so far? I think 10th grade. 10th? Okay. 9th, 10th, something like that. Okay and when you were in school what do you remember as being the biggest challenge that you had? Math and science. Okay and was there any challenges outside of the academic side of it? My criminal record. Say more. So I was constantly in and out of jail. Okay. I've been to county six times. Okay. DJJ program, I did a six month to two year program four times. So instead of the mounting of it all, what do you think was the reason why there were so many instances? What do you think? My family. Okay. People I was around. So the surroundings? Yeah, my cousins, my brothers, they all, they banged so it's like I was adopted into a Haitian family. It's like they're very physical. Yeah. They're physical. And they almost all of them are in jail for life right now. Wow. Because of dumb choices. And you're here. So that's what I'm taking this as an opportunity not something to play with. I hear you. I hear you. Do you want to go back to high school? Do you want to go get your GED? I do. I would go back to high school, but I don't know if they'll even take me. I have four credits out of all of the time I was supposed to be in high school. Okay. Because I literally went for like out of all high school out of two years, ninth and 10th grade, I probably went like three weeks out of the whole two years. Okay. So, well, I guess my question really is, do you want high school or do you prefer to get your GED? I would rather have high school. But right now somebody told me GED and regular high school diploma doesn't look different, but I felt like if you were to go into a high -end job interview, whatever, and they say, oh, do you have your high school diploma? I said, and me saying, no, I have my GED. It just don't. I get where you're coming from. I not even going to try to convince you one way or the other. But I will say is that if you said I had my high school diploma, I'm sorry, if you said I went back and I got my high school diploma, I'm going to look at you a certain way called you went back and finished what you started. Right. But if you went got your GED, what we want to see is someone who went back and got finished what they started, but finished it a different way. Yeah. Right. One does not look worse, at least to me. They say, oh, they're equivalent or whatever, but I feel like one looks better than the other. Maybe. To serve people. Yeah. Possibly. But I don't know. I just, as long as I can get it, I really don't care. I just need a high school diploma because that's the gateway to success. So one gateway. Yeah. One gateway. It's not V. Yeah. It's one. There's going to be for whatever it is you want to do for anything you want to do. There's always going to be multiple ways to get there and you get to choose which one works for you. All right. I want to get a trade. I want to get a few trades, actually. That's my goal. I want to get like three or four different trades. Okay. No matter what it looks like, there's always something. Always got work. Yeah. All right. So how far do you think you are away from actually being able to get that high school diploma? What do you think? Honestly, I don't think that far because I don't know if you know what Literacy Alliance is. It's like GD high school program, whatever, here in Jacksonville. And I went there and took the test for both of the things you have to have required to take the test. I passed both of them. So I don't. So not far. Yeah, not far, but I'm letting Sam ready. Okay. What do you like to do? Like what do you like to do for a hobby? It's fun. What do you like to do? I like, so I'm very athletic person. My two main sports growing up were boxing and basketball. Those are my two. You still play? Yeah. Awesome. I go to the park and the YMCA almost every day. Do you still

[0:05:21] SPEAKER_00:
get to box?

[0:05:21] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. My uncle and my biological family, before I got adopted, he actually owns a boxing gym in Kentucky. That's awesome. So I, before I could even walk, I was learning how to box. Yeah. It's that is really cool. What made you come to this program? I took it as an opportunity. I mean, miss Erica, she was like, I was really just pouring my heart out to her. Like, dang, bro, no one will hire me because I'm a multi -convicted, convicted felon. And they were like, well, let's see what we can do. And they said, I know this. She said, I know this one place that might be able to help you. And I was like, all right, sign me up. I'll take it. I'll just take it. I just need something. What are your first thoughts so far about what you've seen here? My first thought, this is going to be an amazing program. Everybody's so chill, laid back. Like if I went to regular high school, I couldn't go without a few blunts before I got on the bus because it's so stressful. Just walking through the hallways of the high school. But here's like, everybody's just chill. They're chill, you know, ready. Everybody here wants to improve their stuff. So it's like, do you have, I know you mentioned that you wanted to have several trades. Have you identified what the trades are that you want to do? I have. Okay. I'm ready. So I wanted to be an electrician. Okay. A mechanic, a plumber, and a carpenter. I wanted to get those four. All right. Electrician. Yeah. Plumber. Yeah. Carpenter. Yeah. I missed one. Mechanic. Okay. Because I love cars. I don't know what it is. It's just, I love classic cars. Do you? Yeah. My daughter does too. My favorite car is a 68 Chevelle. Really? Yeah. How did you even get to this place where you're like, I like your 60s. Because look, because look, all right, so my dad, his brother, had an exotic car dealership up in Kentucky. He had, but it was all classic cars, like older Rolls Royces, Chevelles, Mustangs. He had this one. It was a really, really old T -bird or whatever. Okay. I don't know what it's called, but it was like, and then he has like, now he has stuff like, what's it called? Aston Martin's, Lamborghinis. He has his one car. It's one of five ever made. And it goes for like, almost like 3.4. Yeah. It's up there. And he let me drive it one day and I was like, how'd that feel? Like, I was, he let me drive it to the store and I felt like I was like James Bond or something. I was, I was just, it was, it was a convertible. So I had to pimp into some music. I dropped my seat back. I was like, I was like 12. Not even close to me behind the wheel. Yeah, but it was in Kentucky. So nobody really cares. Right. Officers don't even care. Like what city were you in? The Kentucky Lexington. Okay. All right. All right. Personal question or a question more about what you think. So if, when you think about these traits, electrician, plumber, carpenter, mechanic, and let's just say, we're just going to group all up into one category. Okay. And just call it, you know, Aaron's traits. If one was never going to happen, five was absolutely going to happen. Where do you think up here you fall in your belief? I don't know. I would, I would take the five, but then I still keep working to get that one. Like, I don't know. I'm like, when I really want to do something, I'm determined. So it's like, so you don't think that anything's supposed to stop you then it's okay to say fine. It's all right. Yeah. I'm gonna go, I'm gonna still try and get, I'm a hard worker. So it's like, then I really need something. I do a lot of self advocating. So it's like, it's like, I don't know. It's like, no, I need something done. I'm gonna find a way to get it done or I'm gonna make sure it gets done. Okay. Like, I don't know. And when it comes to being an electrician, a plumber, carpenter, mechanic, you can pick all four or just one, but in regards to the path to accomplishing it, are you, do you know what that path is? Job Corps. Okay. That's really, I don't know many other programs other than that. Well, in, when I, when I ask, you know, it's not that you have to know all of the paths. It's just like, do you know a path that would get you from here to electrician, from here to being a plumber, from here to being a carpenter? And so if you're saying Job Corps is going to do that, then the answer is yes. Right. Yeah. All right. Aaron, I have, oh no, I do have more questions. Okay. I thought I was done. What do you want to accomplish in these next three weeks? Honestly, connections. Like, learn. Like, for me, it wasn't even about the money. Like, I don't know if you know Phoenix. No. He's a kid who used to come here. He's supposed to come today, but he didn't want to get out of bed. But he lived with me. And it's like, he was like, oh yeah, bro, I'm gonna go because they pay you to go, whatever. It's not even about that for me. It's like, just the opportunity to learn how to better myself. Just, just that alone seems like. That's cool. And what challenges are you currently having that this program can help you break down? I need to get a job like that because nowhere around my area will hire me because I'm a convicted felon. Yeah. So it's like, if I can find jobs around me that are hiring that will hire a convicted felon. Yeah. They're out there. Yeah. I just, I need help. They're out there. Because it's like Popeyes won't even hire me because I'm a convicted felon. That's okay. You don't want Popeyes anywhere. They got good chicken. They said free chicken. Do you have reliable transportation to get here from? I do not. I know a guy from here brought me here this morning. Okay. But I. But it's not, it's, it's not, it's not consistent. I got you. Speaking of which, I have a question. What do I do? Because today at around two 30, I have to be back in my house because I have court today. Okay. What time is it now? Well, let's take that to Kate because Kate's. I asked her about it. She said a reminder. I just don't know how that's going to work. Well, you're going to remind her after we're done here. Cause we're almost done. Okay. Okay. All right, cool. Are there any financial challenges that might make it hard for you to focus on the goals that you have? Not really. I'm in the extended foster care. So everything's pretty much taken care of for the most part. And how do you learn the best hands -on? I can't sit in front of a screen all day. Yeah. My ADHD goes crazy. And have you ever had a job before? And if so, what was the biggest lesson? What was it? What was the biggest lesson? So I worked at two places. I'm a sneaker head. So I worked at Foot Locker as my first job. And then I worked at Sonic. And my second, I worked both of them at the same time. Okay. But, and what was the biggest lesson that you got out of working at both of those companies? Don't waste your money on shoes that you can't afford. Like one of the biggest things is I wish I had learned how to save my money when I was working because it's like that money I could have had now from then would have been really helpful. So don't waste money on shoes you can't afford. Yeah. I felt like you said one more thing too. Uh, learn how to save my money. Learn how to save. Because I had like at one point I spent, I was spending over $5,000 on one pair of shoes. On

[0:14:00] SPEAKER_00:
one pair?

[0:14:01] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. I didn't even

[0:14:02] SPEAKER_00:
really cost that much.

[0:14:04] SPEAKER_01:
Yeah. It was like, um, no way they were, you remember when the fuzzy dunks came out, the Nike dunks, like yellow and green and they looked like the monster or whatever. I am the last person to even tell you about any kind of shoe. They're limited edition. Okay. And they right now that was, that was starting price when they dropped right now they're going for almost 20 bands. Wow. That's crazy. Yeah. That's crazy.
