
SPEAKER 2 0:00:00
 Kind of nervous. Oh please don't be nervous. This is just a simple  conversation. So a lot of this is just process so to make sure that we have  everything we need when you come in there. So like if there's an emergency we  know who can call, you know, and then if there was a, if let's say you had a job  and they like couldn't get in touch with you they could call us and we could say  oh well here's the number we could you know send an email like it's just all so 
SPEAKER 1 0:00:25
 that we have stuff on file. Ain't none of these questions gonna be scary. Okay. 
SPEAKER 2 0:00:31
 No. So highest level of education that you've completed so far? I think 10th grade.  10th? Okay. 9th, 10th, something like that. Okay. And when you were in school what do you remember as  being the biggest challenge that you had? Math and science. Okay. And was there any  challenges outside of the academic side of it? My criminal record. Say more. So I 
SPEAKER 1 0:01:00
 was constantly in and out of jail. Okay. I've been to county six times. Okay. 
SPEAKER 2 0:01:09
 A DJJ program. I did a six month to two year program four times. So instead of the 
SPEAKER 1 0:01:17
 accounting of it all what do you think was the reason why there was so many  instances? What do you think? My family. Okay. People I was around. So the surroundings.  Yeah. Yes. My cousins, my brothers, they all, they banged so it's like I was adopted  into a Haitian family. It's like they're very physical. Yeah. They're  physical. And they almost all of them are in jail for life right now. Wow. Because  of dumb choices. And you're here. So that's what I'm taking this as an opportunity not 
SPEAKER 2 0:02:00
 something to play with. I hear you. I hear you. Do you want to go back to high 
SPEAKER 1 0:02:06
 school? Do you want to go get your GED? I do. I would go back to high school but I 
SPEAKER 2 0:02:11
 don't know if they'll even take me. I have four credits out of all of the time I was 
SPEAKER 1 0:02:16
 supposed to be in high school. Okay. Because I literally went for like out of  all high school out of two years ninth and tenth grade I probably went like three 
SPEAKER 2 0:02:27
 weeks out of the whole two years. Okay. So well I guess my question really is do 
SPEAKER 1 0:02:34
 you want high school or do you prefer to get your GED? I would rather have high  school but right now somebody told me GED and regular high school diploma 
SPEAKER 2 0:02:46
 doesn't look different but I feel like if you were to go into a high-end job 
SPEAKER 1 0:02:50
 interview whatever and they say oh do you have your high school diploma? I said and me 
SPEAKER 2 0:02:55
 say no I have my GED. I just don't. I get where you're coming from. I get where you're coming from. 
SPEAKER 1 0:03:00
 I'm not even going to try to convince you one way or the other but I will say is that if you  said I had my high school diploma and I'm sorry if you said I went back and I got my high school diploma  I'm gonna look at you a certain way called you went back and finished what you started. 
SPEAKER 2 0:03:18
 Right? But if you went got your GED what we're gonna see is someone who went back and got  finished what they started but finished it a different way. Yeah. Right? One does not look  worse at least to me. Like they say they say oh they're equivalent or whatever but I feel like  one looks better than the other. Maybe. To start people. Yeah. Possibly. But I don't know I just 
SPEAKER 1 0:03:42
 as long as I can get it I really don't care I just need a high school diploma because that's 
SPEAKER 2 0:03:47
 the gateway to success. Right? So one gateway. Yeah. One gateway. It's not V. Yeah. It's one  there's gonna be for whatever it is you want to do for anything you want to do there's always 
SPEAKER 1 0:04:01
 gonna be multiple ways to get there and you get to choose which one works for you. Okay. Alright. 
SPEAKER 2 0:04:08
 Yeah I want to get a trade. I want to get a few trades actually that's my goal I want to get like  three or four different trades. Okay. So that way no matter what. Always got work. It looks like  there's always something. Always got work. Yeah. Alright so how far do you think you are away from  actually being able to get that high school diploma? What do you think? Honestly I don't 
SPEAKER 1 0:04:31
 think that far because I don't know if you know what Literacy Alliance is it's a like GD high 
SPEAKER 2 0:04:38
 school program whatever here in Jacksonville and I went there and took the test for both of the 
SPEAKER 1 0:04:44
 things you have to have required to take the GD test and I passed both of them. Okay. So not far.  Yeah not far but I'm letting Sam ready. Okay. What do you like to do? Like what do you like to do for a hobby?  What do you like to do? I like so I'm a very athletic person my two main sports growing up were  boxing and basketball those are my two. You still play? Yeah. Awesome. I go to the park and the YMCA 
SPEAKER 2 0:05:19
 almost every day. Do you still get to box? Yeah. Really? My uncle and my biological family before I got 
SPEAKER 1 0:05:26
 adopted he actually owns a boxing gym in Kentucky. That's awesome. So I before I could even walk I  was learning how to. How to box? Yeah. That is really cool. What made you come to this program?  I took it as an opportunity. I mean Miss Erica she was like I was really just pouring my heart  out to her like dang bro no but no where will hire me because I'm a multi convicted convicted  felon and they were like well let's see what we can do and they said I know this she said I know 
SPEAKER 2 0:06:01
 this one place that might be able to help you I was like sign me up. I'll take it. I'll just take it. 
SPEAKER 1 0:06:06
 I just need something. What are your first thoughts so far about what you've seen here?  It's my first thoughts this is gonna be an amazing program everybody's so chill laid back like if I 
SPEAKER 2 0:06:16
 went to regular high school I couldn't go without a few blunts before I got on the bus because it's 
SPEAKER 1 0:06:22
 so stressful just walking through the hallways of the high school but here's like everybody's just  they're chill. They're chill you know ready they everybody here wants to improve theirself so it's  like. Do you have I know you mentioned that you wanted to have several trades have you identified  what the trades are that you want to do? I have. Okay listen I'm ready. So I wanted to be an  electrician. Okay. A mechanic, a plumber, and a carpenter. I wanted to get those four. All right  electrician. Yeah. Plumber. Yeah. Carpenter. Yeah. I missed one. Mechanic. Okay. Because I love cars  I don't know what it is it's just I love classic cars. Do you? Yeah. My daughter does too. My 
SPEAKER 2 0:07:09
 favorite car is a 68 Chevelle. Really? Yeah. How did you even get to this place where you're like  I like your 60's. Look alright so my um my dad brother had an exotic car dealership up in Kentucky. 
SPEAKER 1 0:07:25
 He had but it was all classic cars like older Rolls Royces, Chevelles, Mustangs. He had this one  it was a really really old T-bird or whatever. Okay. I don't know what it's called but it was like  and then he has like now he has stuff like what's it called Aston Martin's Lamborghinis. He has his 
SPEAKER 2 0:07:51
 one car it's one of five ever made and it goes for like almost like 3.4. Yeah. Yeah. It's up there  and he let me drive it one day and I was like. How'd that feel? Like I was he let me drive it to the store and I 
SPEAKER 1 0:08:10
 felt like I was like James Bond or something. I was just it was it was a convertible so I had dropped the top. I was pimping to some music. I dropped my seat back. I was like 12. 
SPEAKER 2 0:08:25
 Yeah but it was in Kentucky so nobody really cares. Right. Officers don't even care like. What city were you in in Kentucky? Lexington. Okay alright.  Alright personal question or a question more about what you think. So if when you think about these  traits, electrician, plumber, carpenter, mechanic and let's just say we're just gonna group all up 
SPEAKER 1 0:08:49
 to one category okay and just call it you know Aaron's Traits. If one was never gonna happen,  five was absolutely gonna happen, where do you think up here you fall in your belief? I don't  know I would I would take the five. Yeah. But then I still keep working to get that one like I don't 
SPEAKER 2 0:09:17
 know I'm like when I really want to do something I'm determined so it's like I'm here. So you don't 
SPEAKER 1 0:09:22
 think anything's supposed to stop you then? It's okay to say five. It's alright. Yeah I'm gonna go I'm gonna still try and get I'm a hard worker so it's like I really need something. I do a lot of self advocating so it's like it's like I don't know it's like I need something done I'm gonna find a way to get it done or 
SPEAKER 2 0:09:48
 I'm gonna make sure it gets done. Okay and when it comes to being an electrician, plumber, carpenter, mechanic you can pick all four or just one but in regards to the path to accomplishing it are you do you know what that path is? Job Corps. Okay that's really I don't know many other programs other than that. Well in what I when I ask you know it's not that you have to know all of the path it's just like  do you know a path that would get you from here to electrician from here to being a plumber from here to being a carpenter so you're saying Job Corps is gonna do that then the answer is yes right yeah yeah all right 
SPEAKER 1 0:10:33
 Aaron I have oh no I do have more questions okay I thought I was done um what you want to accomplish in these next three weeks?  Honestly connections I learned it like for me it wasn't even about the money like I don't know if you know Phoenix no he's a kid who used to come here he's supposed to come today but he didn't want to get out of bed but he lived with me and it's like he's like oh yeah bro I'm gonna go because they pay you to go whatever it's not even about that for me it's like  just the opportunity to learn how to better myself just just that alone seems like. That's cool and what challenges are you currently having that this program can help you break down? I need to get a job like that because nowhere around my area will hire me because I'm a convicted felon yeah so it's like if I can find jobs around me that are hiring that will hire a convicted felon yeah they're out there yeah I just  I need help they're out there because it's like Popeyes won't even hire me because I'm a convicted felon. That's okay you don't want Popeyes anywhere. They got good chicken. They said free chicken, sign me up. Do you have reliable transportation to get here from? I do not I know a guy from here brought me here this morning okay but I was not this it's not  it's not consistent yeah I got you. Speaking of which I have a question what do I do because today at around 2 30 I have to be back in my house because I have court today okay what time is it now? Well let's take that to Kate because Kate's I asked her about it she said a reminder I just don't know how that's gonna work well you're gonna remind her after we're done here because we're almost done okay okay all right cool um are there any financial challenges that might make it hard for you to focus  on the goals that you have? Not really I'm in the extended foster care so everything's pretty much  taken care of for the most part. And how do you learn the best? Hands-on I can't sit in front of a  screen all day yeah my ADHD goes crazy. And have you ever had a job before and if so what was the 
SPEAKER 2 0:13:03
 biggest lesson what was it what was the biggest lesson you got? So I worked at two places I'm a sneakerhead so I worked at Foot Locker 
SPEAKER 1 0:13:11
 as my first job and then I worked at Sonic. I worked both of them at the same time okay but 
SPEAKER 2 0:13:19
 and what was the biggest lesson that you got out of working at both of those companies? Don't waste  your money on shoes that you can't afford. Like one of the biggest things is I wish I had learned 
SPEAKER 1 0:13:34
 how to save my money when I was working because it's like that money I could have had now 
SPEAKER 2 0:13:42
 from then would have been really helpful. So don't waste money on shoes you can't afford yeah I felt like you said one more 
SPEAKER 1 0:13:50
 thing too. Learn how to save my money. Learn how to save. Because I had like at one point I spent I was 
SPEAKER 2 0:13:56
 spending over $5,000 on one pairs of shoes. On one pair? Yeah. I didn't even really can cost that much. 
SPEAKER 1 0:14:04
 It was like oh you remember when the fuzzy dunks came out the Nike dunks they're like yellow green and they look like the monster or whatever.  I am the last person to even tell you about any kind of shoe. They're limited edition okay and they  right now that was that was starting price when they dropped right now they're going for almost  20 bands. Wow that's crazy. Yeah that's crazy. 